---
layout: post
title: MDK - The Client (Part 2)
author: Sean Campbell
---

To test your apps locally you are going to want to set yourself up an MDK client, currently only iOS is supported in the public version of the client although MDK 3.0 and the Android client are fast approaching release (May 2019 target).

First thing we are going to do is make a note of some important details from the Mobile Services Cockpit where we first created the app in part one. From your apps page make a note of the following.  

- App Id 
- Server Endpoint from the API's Tab  

From the Security >> oAuth tab you will need to make a note of the following

- Client ID
- Redirect URL
- Authorization End Point
- Token End Point

Whilst we are in this screen lets go ahead and add our sample backend so we have a destination to pull data from later. Select the + button next to "Assigned Features" and select sample back end. This will add the destination for you too. Select the Customers entity set and save everything.

## Local Client

To set up the local client first we are going to have to venture in to that cold and dusty place on the internet, the SAP Marketplace. Brace yourself....

Once there its easy enough to search and download the client, you got this I am sure. 

Next up we fire up our terminal and get the client installed, simply Unzip the file you just downloaded and navigate in to the created directory. 

Next run the "MDK Dependancies Installer" This will make sure you have everything you need locally to build the client and be able to test locally. 

N.B Pay particular attention to the version of NativeScript especially if you have been using it previously. Remembering to run "tns setup" once it is installed.

Hopefully you will see a screen of Green ticks but if not, take your time and work through the list installing each option from the list. I used Brew to help with this, if you dont already have it I can not recommend it enough for OSX users [INSTALL BREW](https://brew.sh/). Cant go wrong with anything that installs in Kegs and Casks!! BEER all the things!! Once you have all green ticks we can move on to creating our local client.

You should still have a terminal in the correct directory so from here run 
<pre> ./install.command" </pre>
This will install and unpack all of the relevant files for the client. Once that has finished you will want to copy the template.mdkproject to helloworld.mdkproject and then open that in your favourite code editor.

Change the MDKProject.json first you want this to match the options you selected when setting up the app in part 1 on this series. Once that is setup we will make use of those notes we took at the start of this post, open BrandedSettings.json and fill in the relevant fields with those values. (Remember to not add the trailing slash on any of these URLS).

Now we are ready to create our local client I know it seems like a lot of setup but you only have to do this once... 

<pre> ./create-client.command </pre>

and follow the on screen prompts pointing at the MDKproject file you just created. Thats it thats your client created. 


## On A Mobile Device

Arguably its much simpler to get the client up and running on your iOS device. Go in to the Appstore and download "SAP Mobile Services Client".. Next we make a URL using the following framework:

<code>sapmobilesvcs://?AppId={}&ClientId={}&SapCloudPlatformEndpoint={}&AuthorizationEndpointUrl={}&RedirectUrl={}&TokenUrl={}&ServiceTimeZoneAbbreviation=PST </code>

Fill in the spaces with the notes we made at the start of this post. 

Put that URL in to a QR Code Generator and point your iOS devices camera at it, you will get the option to open the app in the client you just downloaded and thats it we are ready to create our application in Part 3 of this series.